# Algorithms to Generate Estimates of Inclination Angle Distribution for GW system
## Overview
This repository contains two notebooks created using python that are capable of generating estimate curves for the distribution of inclination angles of gravitational wave systems. There are two separate algorithms given two distinct distribution models were decided upon to model the seen distribution in detected events - these distribution models are the skew normal distribution and the bivariate skew normal distribution. The data used was generated using the IMRPhenomXPHM waveform approximant, therefore these estimate curves are related to the results produced by this waveform approximant only, and may differ from distributions of inclination angles generated using different waveform approximants. A report has been written that details the process and method used, along with all documentation that has provided the mathematical basis of the models that govern the algorithms. Within the report, it is determined that the current algorithm most effective at generating accurate estimate distributions of inclination angles is the one founded on the skew normal distribution, however this does not in any way discredit the usefulness of the bivariate skew normal distribution model - the issues regarding this model likely stems from the use of the marginal distributions in the method (once again detailed in full in the report).

When using these algorithms, they will ask for input values for the inclination angle of maximum likelihood and signal-to-noise ratio of your detection, as well as a normalisation factor (as specified in the code, this value is to be inputted as 0.5 unless known or attempting to replicate a known distribution). The bivariate skew normal model asks for an additional input value, being the luminosity distance of maximum likelihood. The algorithms can also be used to see how variations in these values affect the form of the distribution (this depends on assumptions made when constructing the algorithm, stated in the report).

## Accessing the Algorithms
These links allow for you to download the notebooks.
[For the Skew Normal Model](.Algorithm_using_Skew_Normal.ipynb)
[For the Bivariate Skew Normal Model](.Algorithm_using_Bivariate_Skew_Normal.ipynb)
